Abstract— Nowadays diabetes is a serious chronic disease that affects millions of people in the world, especially women. According to a lot of factors and variables, the diagnosis of this disease is very complex and there is a lot of potential for possible human error. So, there is a dire need for a tool or technological advancement for prognosis of this disease that can help doctors in early detection of this fatal disease and hence can recommend certain lifestyle changes to stop the progression of diabetes.Recent healthcare research and studies have made a virtuous use of various cutting-edge techniques and advanced scientific methods to accurately diagnose and predict the disease based on the data received from the person. One such technological advancement in this field is Machine Learning which helps us in making smarter and accurate predictions on the data. In this research paper, we have designed a classification model which helps us in the prediction of diabetes in females of Pima Indian 
Heritage. Since this is a binary classification problem, we have used two popular supervised learning algorithms such as the Naive Bayes Classification and Logistic Regression. The data has been taken from the UCI repository and Kaggle. We have also computed the AUC value and classification accuracies in the case of both types of supervised learning algorithms that would give us a fair idea about which classification algorithm is better and more accurate. We have used R studio and its various libraries to generate results.
